So with all these features added, let's make sure that we can click on a single item here and load it in
the recipe details section.
Again this is the challenge for you,
it only uses tools we learned thus far,
you somehow need to emit an event on the single recipe item component, that it was clicked and then get
this event somehow to the recipes component which then also holds the recipe detail to pass down the
event data, which recipe was selected to that component.
Now you're going to have to work with property and event binding for this,
again only things you learned thus far
and if you're getting stuck or something like this, of course we will solve it together in a couple
of seconds,
here's your chance to pause.
So were you successful? Now
the approach we're going to do now, we're going to follow now is only a temporary approach.
We'll later learn how to do this more elegantly and easier
but it's also a great approach because it uses the things we learned thus far
and it gives us an impression on when a different approach might be useful.
So what's our goal? Here in the single recipe item component, here we got this link and we want to make
sure that whenever this link is clicked, we emit an event informing our parent component that this recipe
was selected.
So for this to work, I'll add a click listener to this link and I will say onSelected here, of course
you can choose any method name you want.
I'll implement onSelected here
and there I want to emit my own event,
so I will name it recipe selected and this will use the event emitter as you'll learn,
again make sure to import it from @angular/core. The event emitter here won't pass any information,
so I'll set the type to void because it will contain no information and we have to add @output so
that we can listen to this event from outside, @output
also needs to be imported from @angular/core.
In onSelected, I then want to trigger recipe selected and call emit, not error, emit.
Again we don't pass any error because here we specify that we won't,
we don't need to pass any.
You could argue that you want to pass the recipe on which this was emitted but you don't need to do
this because what is the parent component listening to that? That of course is our recipe list component,
that is where we use the single recipe item.
Now if we implement our own event here and listen to recipe selected, well we already got information
of which recipe this will be because we have it here from the ngFor loop.
Keep in mind, this will replicate this element, so for each element,
it's absolutely clear
which element this is. In recipe selected, we again need to emit an event though because we're
not there, where we want to be, we have to go up one level because we want to reach our recipes component,
we're just the one implementing the recipe list.
This is probably where you see that as a kind of complex to simply inform another component that we
clicked something. For now it's the only method we have
and it's a great practice but no worries, we will improve this in the future.
So in recipe list, we need to emit another event, so here I'll execute onRecipeSelected, of course
choose any name you want and that method of course has to be implemented here.
Now here, we need to get some extra information, which recipe was selected and therefore, I will pass the
recipe element here,
so that is the recipe which we did select.
Now with that we have that information, we know here we will get the selected recipe which will be of type
recipe,
we are already importing the model therefore we can easily use the type and then we, as I mentioned, want
to emit another event.
So here we need to find a fitting name, before we used recipe selected, that would be a fitting name
here too but to make it super clear that this is a different event because custom events don't propagate
up so we can't listen to the event of a child of a child,
I want to choose a different name,
recipe was selected maybe, which also uses the event emitter, so make sure to import it from @angular/core
and here I will pass my recipe as a type. Here
I will pass the recipe which was selected because that is the information the recipes component will need in
the end.
Now as before, we need to add @output here and import this from @angular/core, so that we can listen
to this event from outside and then here in onRecipeSelected, we can use recipe was selected emitted
and pass the recipe as data.
Now with that, we can go to our recipe component,
our main component for this feature area and on the list, we can now listen to recipe was selected,
the custom event we created a second ago
and here, I now want to store this selected recipe.
So in my TypeScript file, I will create a selected recipe property which will be of type recipe,
make sure to import recipe from your model file then
and initially, this is undefined because I'm not assigning a value.
I will assign a value here
once this event here occurs,
so then I will have set selected recipe equal to $event
and of course you could also put this into a method but since this is all I want to do, I can put it
into the template here.
Generally though, you should try to put as little logic as possible into your template.
So here, I'm referring to the selected recipe property of my recipes component and $event
as you learned refers to the data we passed with an event,
now we can pass this information to the recipe detail component. First of all though, I will add ngIf to
this detail component to determine if we want to display it because I only want to display it if selected
recipe is set.
So here, I will check if selected recipe and if it is undefined, that will resolve to false
and if it is not set, I want to say a dummy text, so I will use ng-template for this to define a paragraph
where I say please select a recipe and ng-template will receive a local reference of info text
and now with that placed on ng-template, we can use this ngIf else syntax where I add a semi-colon
and then else info text, so that else the content of this template should be displayed.
If we save this, we see please select the recipe here, so that it's working as it should,
now if we select a recipe by clicking here, we see the recipe detail.
Now of course we don't see the detail data because we're right now not passing this recipe down to
the component but at least our if check is working and we're passing the recipe, this event successfully.
Now as a final step, let's pass the selected recipe to the app recipe detail. For that
we have to go to that component and add a property for this, here
I'm going to name this recipe again which will be of type recipe and make sure to import this from
your recipe.model file.
It's not set initially but I will add @input so that we may set it from outside, input of course as
always has to be imported from @angular/core and with that, we can now go back to the recipes component
and bind to that recipe
and of course we want to bind our selected recipe and keep in mind, this whole component will only be
rendered, only be attached to the DOM
if this condition is true, so if selected recipe is not undefined.
Therefore once we pass this down to the recipe detail component, we know that we can safely output
the recipe name here, so recipe name,
keep in mind recipe is the property name in this component,
the one to which we're binding to from outside and this will never fail because recipe will always be
set
otherwise this component wouldn't be rendered due to ngIf. Here
I also want to use property binding to display my image, so recipe imagePath then and here, I'll use
string interpolation to display the name
if we can't load the image for some reason. The buttons are fine
but below in the description, I will set the recipe description.
Now with this, if we save that and we click on the recipe, we see the recipe here.
Now the image is a little bit too big,
so maybe on this image, let's simply add some styling to it, an inline style where we set the maximum height
to 300 pixels maybe, like that.
Now with that, that looks better.
So now we got this working,
looks like nothing changed because we get the same text here,
so let's quickly go to our recipe list component and name this another test recipe so that we can
actually see if we correctly switch
and we do.
So that is working,
the missing piece now is the shopping list where I want to make these input fields here work, at least in
a basic way.